Update porting overview and dependencies section (#14621)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/porting/index.md

author: cartermp
ms.date: 09/23/2019
ms.custom: seodec18
---
# Port from .NET Framework to .NET Core

If you've got code that runs on the .NET Framework, you may be interested in running your code on .NET Core, too. Here's an overview of the porting process and a list of the tools you may find helpful when porting your code to .NET Core.

## Overview of the porting process

This is the process we recommend you take when porting your project to .NET Core. Each step of the process is covered in more detail in further articles.

1. Retarget all projects you wish to port to target the .NET Framework 4.7.2 or higher.

   This step ensures that you can use API alternatives for .NET Framework-specific targets when .NET Core doesn't support a particular API.

2. Assess if your first-party .NET dependencies all work on .NET Core. Use the [.NET Portability Analyzer](../../standard/analyzers/portability-analyzer.md) to analyze your assemblies.

   The API Portability Analyzer tool analyzes your compiled assemblies and generates a report that shows a high-level portability summary and a breakdown of each API you're using that isn't available on NET Core.

> 3. Install the [.NET API analyzer](../../standard/analyzers/api-analyzer.md) into your projects to identify APIs throwing <xref:System.PlatformNotSupportedException> on some platforms and some other potential compatibility issues.

Author: No, this is beforehand.

> 4. Convert all of your package dependencies to the [PackageReference](/nuget/consume-packages/package-references-in-project-files) format.

Author: This is typically done in VS. It's for legacy-style projects that use packages.config only.

---
title: Port from .NET Framework to .NET Core
description: Understand the porting process and discover tools you may find helpful when porting a .NET Framework project to .NET Core.
author: cartermp

> ms.date: 09/23/2019

Reviewer: update ms.date one more time to reflect this is still accurate?

ms.custom: seodec18
---
# Overview of the porting process from .NET Framework to .NET Core

You might have code that currently runs on the .NET Framework that you're interested in porting to .NET Core. This article provides:

* An overview of the porting process.
* A list of the tools you may find helpful when you're porting your code to .NET Core.

## Overview of the porting process

> We recommend you to use the following process when porting your project to .NET Core. Each step of the process is covered in more detail in further articles.

Reviewer: Each step is covered... -> where do we cover step #1?

   This tool is similar to the portability analyzer, but instead of analyzing if things can build on .NET Core, it will analyze if you're using an API in a way that will throw the <xref:System.PlatformNotSupportedException> at runtime. Although this isn't common if you're moving from .NET Framework 4.7.2 or higher, it's good to check.

4. Convert all of your `packages.config` dependencies to the [PackageReference](/nuget/consume-packages/package-references-in-project-files) format with the [conversion tool in Visual Studio](/nuget/consume-packages/migrate-packages-config-to-package-reference).

   This step involves converting your dependencies from the legacy `packages.config` format. `packages.config` doesn't work on .NET Core, so this conversion is required if you have package dependencies.

5. Create new projects for .NET Core and copy over source files, or attempt to convert your existing project file with a tool.

   .NET Core uses a simplified (and different) [project file format](../tools/csproj.md) than .NET Framework. You'll need to convert your project files into this format to continue.

6. Port your test code.

>    Because porting to .NET Core is such a significant change to your codebase, it's highly recommended to get your tests ported, so that you can run tests as you port your code over. MSTest, xUnit, and NUnit all run very well on .NET Core.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Because porting to .NET Core is such a significant change to your codebase, it's highly recommended to get your tests ported, so that you can run tests as you port your code over. MSTest, xUnit, and NUnit all work on .NET Core.
```
